title: Mail sucks
date: 2015-02-01 20:23:42
tags:
  - mail
  - web
  - opensource
  - programming
  - tools
categories:
  - Tools
---

Another rant about mail and how bad it is.

Quest for life?
---------------

My search for useful tools and concepts to handle e-mail seems to be a
persistent life task. In my oppinion, e-mail is still the most rediculus thing
to handle in our daily life. After all those years, all we did was
destroying the beautiful simplicity via over-complicating the mail related
protocols. Instead we should use our energy to find easy ways of using email.

All we got in 50 years of development is slick web interfaces that show a pile
of headlines. Barely some automatism which makes this pile easy to handle â€“ we
had too much work with banning spam from our inboxes.

And don't forget the server side. How hard can it be to handle e-mail? You need
to read dozens of books to get a glimpse of what to do. Just compare that to
for example XMPP where you just install one server program, set configuration
values in a documented file and maybe add some modules to have fancy things
like bridges to other protocols. Thats it. To have a working mail server only
with things you need: Sending mail (SMTP), reading / receiving mail (IMAP or
POP3), spam protection; you need to juggle with at least four programs which
have to work together and are partially very hard to configure.

This is wrong. In 2015 we are still not able to have a simple and working open
source mail solution.

Okay, you now know why I stopped handling mails on my own server. Doing this
one or two times is okay, but if you have to maintain this shit over years, you
are one your way straight into madness. So I use mailbox.org to handle my mail
and I'm happy to pay a few bucks monthly for this excellent service.

For now I used their web interface (which is actually OpenXChange). I don't
want to use any of these GUI tools like Thunderbird and TUI tools are just not
fitting my needs unfortunately. I would love to use Mutt here, but I have to be
able to easily handle HTML mails (company mails) and I struggled alot with
filtering and sorting mails. Sup, another very good TUI mail client is way to
complicated. I just don't have the patience anymore. I also could import mail
mails into a local mailbox and then use different programs per problem: One for
syncing mail, one for sorting and categorizing mail, an indexer and a client to
search through this index.

This toolset exists. There are for example
[mairix](http://www.rpcurnow.force9.co.uk/mairix/) and
[notmuchmail](http://notmuchmail.org/). Both are rather for handling the huge
mail pile, so you still need a mail client. Mutt, again, comes in handy but you
can only use it on top of some external sorting and filtering mechanisms. What
I want instead is a comprehensiv tool or toolset made for handling mail on the
client side. But not any of these web services, I want my mail at home (even if
I trust mailbox.org, I want a copy. You know: "offline"). And not any of these
existing bloatware GUI programs. I want 


http://gaute.vetsj.com/pages/astroid.html

